# Chapter 2 - The Stream API

## Task 1
Write a parallel version of the `for` loop in Section 2.1, "From Iteration to Stream Operations", on page 22. Obtain 
the number of processors. Make that many separate threads, each working on a segment of the list, and total up the 
result as they come in. (You don't want the threads to update a single counter. Why?)

## Task 2
Verify that asking for the first five long words does not call the filter method once the fifth long word has been 
found. Simply log each method call.

## Task 3
Measure the difference when counting long words with a `parallelStream` instead of a `stream`. Call 
`System.currentTimeMillis` before and after the call, and print the difference. Switch to a larger document (such as 
_War and Peace_) if you have a fast computer.

## Task 4
Suppose you have an array `int[] values = { 1, 4, 9, 16 }`. What is `Stream.of(values)`? How do you get a stream of 
`int` instead?

## Task 5
Using `Stream.iterate`, make an infinite stream of random numbers â€” not by calling `Math.random` but by directly 
implementing a _linear congruential generator_. In such a generator, you start with _x[0] = seed_ and then produce 
_x[n + 1] = 1 (a x[n] + c) % m_, for appropriate values of _a_, _c_, and _m_. You should implement a method with 
parameters `a`, `c`, `m`, and `seed` that yields a `Stream<Long>`. Try out _a_ = 25214903917, _c_ = 11, and _m_ = 2^48.

## Task 6
The `characterStream` method in Section 2.3, "The `filter`, `map`, and `flatMap` Methods", on page 25, was a bit 
clumsy, first filling an array list and then turning it into a stream. Write a stream-based one-linear instead. One 
approach is to make a stream of integers from `0` to `s.length()` - `1` and map that with the `s::charAt` method 
reference.

## Task 7
Your manager asks you to write a method `public static <T> boolean isFinite(Stream<T> stream)`. Why isn't that such a 
good idea? Go ahead and write it anyway.

## Task 8
Write a method `public static <T> Stream<T> zip(Stream<T> first, Stream<T> second)` that alternates elements from the 
stream `first` and `second`, stopping when one of them runs out of elements.

## Task 9
Join all elements in a `Stream<ArrayList<T>>` to one `ArrayList<T>`. Show how to do this with the three forms of 
`reduce`.

## Task 10
Write a call to `reduce` that can be used to compute the average of a `Stream<Double>`. Why can't you simply compute 
the sum and divide by `count()`?

## Task 11
It should be possible to concurrently collect stream results in a single `ArrayList`, instead of merging multiple array 
lists, provided it has been constructed with the stream's size, since concurrent `set` operations at disjoint positions 
are threadsafe. How can you achieve this?

## Task 12
Count all short words in a parallel `Stream<String>`, as described in Section 2.13, "Parallel Streams", on page 40, by 
updating an array of `AtomicInteger`. Use the atomic `getAndIncrement` method to safely increment each counter.

## Task 13
Repeat the preceding exercise, but filter out the short strings and use the `collect` method with 
`Collectors.groupingBy` and `Collectors.counting`.